update: Include docs for the new API of useOrganizationList (#265)
clerkinc/clerk-docs: docs/references/react/use-organization-list.mdx

| `userInvitations` | [`CommonPaginatedParams`](#commonpaginatedparams) and `status` which describes the status of an invitation, defaults to `pending`. |
| `userSuggestions` | [`CommonPaginatedParams`](#commonpaginatedparams) and `status` which describes the status of a suggestion, defaults to `pending`. |

### `CommonPaginatedParams`

`CommonPaginatedParams` can be either `true` or an object with the properties described below. If set to `true`, all of the default values will be used.

| Properties | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `initialPage` | A number that can be used to skip the first n-1 pages. For example, if `initialPage` is set to 10, it is will skip the first 9 pages and will fetch the 10th page. Defaults to `1`. |
| `pageSize` | A number that indicates the maximum number of results that should be returned for a specific page. Defaults to `10`. |
| `keepPreviousData` | If `true`, it will persist the cached data until the new data has been fetched. Defaults to `false`. |
| `infinite` | If `true`, the new downloaded data will be appended to the list with the existing data. Ideal for infinite lists. Defaults to `false`. |

## Returns

> The userMemberships, userInvitations, and userSuggestions are returned as paginated lists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `userMemberships`, `userInvitations`, and `userSuggestions` are returned as paginated lists.
```

---
title: useOrganizationList()
description: Access methods for switching between active organizations and for listing available memberships, invitations and suggestions.
---

> import { Callout } from "nextra-theme-docs";
> import { Tables } from "@/components/Table";
> import { CodeBlockTabs } from "@/components/CodeBlockTabs";

Reviewer: Imports are not needed - the components are rendered by the marketing repo anyways. This is just tech debt.

```suggestion
```

# `useOrganizationList()`

> Access methods for switching between active organizations and for listing available memberships, invitations and suggestions.
> 
> `useOrganizationList` enables developers to fetch the memberships, invitations or suggestsions for an active user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `useOrganizationList` hook allows you to retrieve the memberships, invitations, or suggestions for an active user. This hook also gives you the ability to create an organization and set the active organization.
```

> `Note: these resources are paginated`

Reviewer: I would use a Callout component here. But I think it would be better if it were placed under Returns, like this:

### Returns

The `userMemberships`, `userInvitations`, and `userSuggestions` are returned as paginated lists.

```suggestion
<Callout type="info">
  These resources are paginated.
</Callout>
```

> The hook requires developers to opt-in by specifying which resource they need to fetch and paginate through. It is ideal for infinite lists or tables

Reviewer: Move these down under "Usage"

```suggestion
```

> ## Usage
> ### Infinite list of joined organizations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Usage

The `useOrganizationList` hook requires developers to opt-in by specifying which resource they need to fetch and paginate through. It is ideal for infinite lists or tables.

### Infinite list of joined organizations
```

> <CodeBlockTabs options={['Next.js', 'React']}>

Reviewer: We should have app router and pages router examples for Next.js,
so we can use <Tabs> for Next.js versus React examples, 
and for the Next.js tab, add <CodeBlockTabs options={["App router", "Pages router"}]

Author: tbh, i don't see why this would be use full. Code will be identical and it is already identical between the 2 tabs.

if we can remove them completely it be nice. I'm not opinionated, so if what u mentioned is a pattern we want to have across our docs, then do it.

Reminder that this has to do with hooks. Same code should run in any react related framework

Reviewer: very good point !! ignore my comment

        ))}
      </ul>

      <button
        disabled={!userMemberships.hasNextPage}
        onClick={() => userMemberships.fetchNext()}
      >
        Load more
      </button>
    </>
  );
};

export default JoinedOrganizationList;
```

```tsx copy filename="joined-organizations.tsx"
import { useOrganizationList } from "@clerk/nextjs";
import React from "react";

const JoinedOrganizationList = () => {
  const { isLoaded, setActive, userMemberships } = useOrganizationList({
    userMemberships: {
      infinite: true,
    },
  });

  if (!isLoaded) {
    return <>Loading</>;
  }

  return (
    <>
      <ul>
        {userMemberships.data?.map((mem) => (
          <li key={mem.id}>
            <span>{mem.organization.name}</span>
            <button
              onClick={() => setActive({ organization: mem.organization.id })}
            >
              Select
            </button>
          </li>
        ))}
      </ul>

      <button
        disabled={!userMemberships.hasNextPage}
        onClick={() => userMemberships.fetchNext()}
      >
        Load more
      </button>
    </>
  );
};

export default JoinedOrganizationList;
```
</CodeBlockTabs>

### Table of invitations

> <CodeBlockTabs options={['Next.js', 'React']}>

Reviewer: We should have app router and pages router examples for Next.js,
so we can use for Next.js versus React examples,
and for the Next.js tab, add <CodeBlockTabs options={["App router", "Pages router"}]

```

```tsx copy filename="joined-organizations.tsx"
import { useOrganizationList } from "@clerk/nextjs";
import React from "react";

const InvitationsTable = () => {
  const { isLoaded, userInvitations } = useOrganizationList({
    userInvitations: {
      infinite: true,
      keepPreviousData: true,
    },
  });

  if (!isLoaded || userInvitations.isLoading) {
    return <>Loading</>;
  }

  return (
    <>
      <table>
        <thead>
          <tr>
            <th>Email</th>
            <th>Org name</th>
          </tr>
        </thead>

        <tbody>
          {userInvitations.data?.map((inv) => (
            <tr key={inv.id}>
              <th>{inv.emailAddress}</th>
              <th>{inv.publicOrganizationData.name}</th>
            </tr>
          ))}
        </tbody>
      </table>

      <button
        disabled={!userInvitations.hasPreviousPage}
        onClick={userInvitations.fetchPrevious}
      >
        Prev
      </button>
      <button
        disabled={!userInvitations.hasNextPage}
        onClick={userInvitations.fetchNext}
      >
        Next
      </button>
    </>
  );
};

export default InvitationsTable;
```
</CodeBlockTabs>

> ## Parameters
> useOrganizationList accepts a single object with the following properties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Parameters

`useOrganizationList` accepts a single object with the following properties:

```

| Properties | Description |
| --- | --- |

> | `userMemberships` | `CommonPaginatedParams` (Optional) |
> | `userInvitations` | `CommonPaginatedParams` (Optional) and status which describes the status of an invitation. Defaults to `pending`. |
> | `userSuggestions` | `CommonPaginatedParams` (Optional) and status which describes the status of a suggestion. Defaults to `pending`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `userMemberships?` | [`CommonPaginatedParams`](#commonpaginatedparams) |
| `userInvitations?` | [`CommonPaginatedParams`](#commonpaginatedparams) and status which describes the status of an invitation. Defaults to `pending`. |
| `userSuggestions?` | [`CommonPaginatedParams`](#commonpaginatedparams)` and status which describes the status of a suggestion. Defaults to `pending`. |
```

### `CommonPaginatedParams`

> CommonPaginatedParams can be either `true` or an object with the properties described bellow.
> If it `true` all the defaults values will be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`CommonPaginatedParams` can be either `true` or an object with the properties described below. If set to `true`, all of the default values will be used.
```

| Properties | Description |
| --- | --- |

> | `initialPage` | A number and can be used to skip the first n-1 pages. For example if initialPage is set to 10, it is will skip the first 9 pages and will fetch the 10th page. Defaults to `1`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `initialPage` | A number that can be used to skip the first n-1 pages. For example, if `initialPage` is set to 10, it will skip the first 9 pages and will fetch the 10th page. Defaults to `1`. |
```

> | `pageSize` | A number that indicates the maximum number of  results that should be returned for a specific page. Defaults to `10`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `pageSize` | A number that indicates the maximum number of results that should be returned for a specific page. Defaults to `10`. |
```

> | `keepPreviousData` | If true it will persist the cached data until the new data has been fetched. Defaults to `false`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `keepPreviousData` | If `true`, it will persist the cached data until the new data has been fetched. Defaults to `false`. |
```

> | `infinite` | If true the new downloaded data will be appended to the list with the existing data. Ideal for infinite lists. Defaults to `false`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `infinite` | If `true`, the new downloaded data will be appended to the list with the existing data. Ideal for infinite lists. Defaults to `false`. |
```

> ## Returns
> | Variables | Description |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Returns

| Variables | Description |
```

| --- | --- |

> | `isLoaded` | A boolean that until Clerk loads and initializes, will be set to false. Once Clerk loads, isLoaded will be set to true |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `isLoaded` | A boolean is set to `false` until Clerk loads and initializes. Once Clerk loads, `isLoaded` will be set to `true`. |
```

| `createOrganization` | A function that returns a promise that resolves to the newly created Organization. It accepts a name and a slug |
| `setActive` | A function that sets the active organization. It accepts either the organization object or the organization id. |

> | `userMemberships` | API for fetching paginated resources. See `PaginatedResources` below |
> | `userInvitations` | API for fetching paginated resources. See `PaginatedResources` below |
> | `userSuggestions` | API for fetching paginated resources. See `PaginatedResources` below |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `userMemberships` | API for fetching [paginated resources](#paginatedresources). |
| `userInvitations` | API for fetching [paginated resources](#paginatedresources). |
| `userSuggestions` | API for fetching [paginated resources](#paginatedresources). |
```

> ### `PaginatedResources`
> | Variables | Description |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `PaginatedResources`

| Variables | Description |
```

| --- | --- |
| `data` | An array that contains the fetched data. |
| `count` | The total count of data that exist remotely. |

> | `isLoading` | A boolean that is true if there is an ongoing request and there is no fetched data. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `isLoading` | A boolean that is `true` if there is an ongoing request and there is no fetched data. |
```

> | `isFetching` | A boolean that is true if there is an ongoing request or a revalidation. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `isFetching` | A boolean that is `true` if there is an ongoing request or a revalidation. |
```

| `isError` | A boolean that indicates the request failed. |
| `page` | A number that indicates the current page. |
| `pageCount` | A number that indicates the total amount of pages. It is calculated based on `count` , `initialPage` , and `pageSize` |

> | `fetchPage` | A function that trigger a specific page to be loaded. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `fetchPage` | A function that triggers a specific page to be loaded. |
```

> | `fetchPrevious` | A helper function that trigger the previous page to be loaded. This is the same as `fetchPage(page=> Math.max(0, page - 1))` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `fetchPrevious` | A helper function that triggers the previous page to be loaded. This is the same as `fetchPage(page=> Math.max(0, page - 1))` |
```

> | `fetchNext` | A helper function that trigger the previous page to be loaded. This is the same as `fetchPage(page=> Math.max(0, page + 1))` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `fetchNext` | A helper function that triggers the previous page to be loaded. This is the same as `fetchPage(page=> Math.max(0, page + 1))` |
```
